Nutrition meal preparation and
calculating your nutrient needs are
essential to building monster mass if
the work in the kitchen isn't done the
work in a gym won't be seen today I'm
going to teach you the essentials of
mass making nutrition how many calories
think you should be eating and portion
sizes how to prepare and pack your foods
and accessories needed to do this what
foods inc should be eating and avoiding
whilst bulking and how to overcome
common temptations and roadblocks you
need to be dedicated and consistent with
your diet your food isn't just about
what tastes good it's all about fueling
your body to forge new muscle
you are what you eat if you eat like a
little girl going to look like one but
if you eat like a bodybuilder and
similarity or beyond canon let's start
with the basics of mass building
nutrition first you're going to need
quality calories to keep your body
fueled for muscle building growth second
you're going to be eating probably every
two to three hours you're gonna have a
total of six meals instead of your basic
three meals a day this will keep your
body primed for optimum growth and by
eating frequently this will allow you to
ramp up your metabolism which will keep
your lean while you're growing to eat
every few hours you need to be prepared
a small cooler is a must-have have a few
meals to take to school and stuff it
with tupperware ice blocks and a shaker
bottle don't be like the countless of
other teams that want to get big but
always look the same prepare your meals
in advance or prepare to fail keep
yourself on the right path I having easy
accessible foods throughout the day like
trail mix beef jerky our TVs or protein
shakes by having these easy accessible
fruits with you the whole time we'll
make sure that your muscles are
constantly infused with mass building
nutrients
weekends can be really tough for getting
in the right kind of meals it's easy for
your friends to hit up a fast food joint
they're not have the same sort of goals
as you if you with them go get a grilled
chicken sandwich instead without the
mayo and cheese save yourself some money
instead of buying a soda get a free
water after all these sodas are loaded
with the wrong type of calories they'll
give you a bigger gut but not a bigger
bicep training is normally the easy part
of a muscle building equation train
three to five hours a week job done
nutrition's a little bit harder you guys
spend most your time thinking packing or
eating food it's tough when the going
gets tough the week go home only the
strong survive if you want to lift
heavier than everyone else at the gym
you got to make sure that you've got the
right fuel in your body see your body is
a race car if you're putting crappy fuel
in it you're gonna have crappy workouts
but if you've got a high grade fuel in
it you'll be breaking personal bests
week after week avoid skipping meals
every time you eat brings another
opportunity for more mass cut out all
the terrible cafeteria foods and start
having fist-sized lean cuts of protein
like grilled chicken turkey eggs and
protein shakes are perfect you want to
try and get 1.5 grams of protein per
pound of body weight also include a fist
sized portion of carbohydrates with
every meal carbohydrates are your body's
preferred source for energy throughout
the day and for your intense training
session good complex carbohydrate
sources are like whole wheat bread whole
wheat pasta oats and sweet potatoes good
fats are also crucial to your growth and
will keep your muscle building hormone
levels at a healthy peak make sure you
take in a tablespoon of peanut butter
almonds or olive oil a few times a day
finally keep yourself hydrated drinking
a gallon of water throughout the day
keeps your body prime for building
water transports nutrients keeps
yourself hydrated and activates the
muscle fibers it's crucial for growth on
your workout days your nutrition needs
will skyrocket to make up for the
calories that you'll use on these
training days add an extra two to three
hundred calories now you can do this by
adding an extra meal or you can add them
throughout the rest your meals during
that day so that covers most your daily
meals but pre and post workout nutrition
is especially important about an hour
and a half before you train make sure
you have a meal that contains complex
carbohydrates to sustain your energy and
lean protein that will prime your body
for growth your post-workout will
include a fast digestive carb and
protein to help jumpstart recovery your
carbohydrates will be a simple carb like
multi dextran fatah go or a banana
they'll help replenish your energy your
protein will be an isolate or hydrolyzed
protein which will help with repair and
construction of the muscle fibers
finally if you're not adding any weight
eat more food try adding an extra 100 to
200 calories from the form of complex
carbohydrates protein and good fats and
to see the weight on the scale start to
climb calories equates a mass if you're
not putting on mass you're not eating
adora calories the mirror will be your
ultimate judge remember dedication and
consistency will take you from where you
are now to a massive ripped physique be
consistent down your calories pack your
meals and enjoy added mass one meal at a
time